#Economic Impact
##Overview
The football team’s economic impact was examined by projecting revenues and expenses and
evaluating its net present value (NPV), which was ∂5,380,735,569.79. The impact on Rarita’s economy
was considered through indices such as gross domestic product (GDP) and gross national income (GNI),
and the effects on tourism and Rarita’s provinces are outlined. Lastly, the sensitivity of the NPV to
inflation, interest rates, and exchange rates was also evaluated.  

##Analysis of revenue and expenses 
The revenues generated and expenses incurred were projected over the investment horizon. The 2021
projections of revenues and expenses were calculated by averaging the corresponding values from 2016
to 2020, and subsequent revenues and expenses were assumed to grow at inflation. Due to the fixed
nature of the matchday and commercial revenues, they were assumed to be the same as those from
Rarita’s domestic leagues. However, since the games are broadcasted internationally, the broadcasting
revenue was averaged across the 21 countries. Similarly, expenses for Rarita’s national team were
assumed to be the same as those from Rarita’s domestic leagues, due to their fixed nature (Appendix F).
The tournament winnings were estimated at ∂38m, in line with the 2018 FIFA World Cup – a similar
international tournament. The winnings in each year were indexed to inflation and multiplied by the
probability of winning, yielding the expected value of tournament winnings. Lastly, net earnings were 
reinvested into the economy at the prevailing spot rates.

The difference between the total expenses incurred in 2021 and the initial budget was ∂1,064,486,624.
To ensure solvency, if these expenses were incurred before revenue was generated, this amount was
borrowed as a loan with an eleven-year maturity. Interest on the loan was assumed to accrue at the
prevailing eleven-year spot rates, and the loan was amortised with annual payments.

In calculating the NPV, the total earnings for each year were discounted using the average of the
relevant spot rates. The NPV of this project was ∂5,380,735,569.79, which indicates that it is profitable. 

## Impact on Related Industries and Rarita’s Provinces 

Countries with championship winning teams experience an increase in tourist arrivals over the two years
following the event. Tourism contributed to 10.4% of global GDP in 2019. Applying this to Rarita results
in tourism amounting to ∂30 billion in 2020. Extrapolating data from past FIFA winners, Rarita can
expect an increase of 12.79% in tourists per capita over the two years following a tournament win
(Appendix G). Furthermore, being a World Cup champion will enhance the awareness of “Rarita” as a
brand due to the halo effect, which refers to the cognitive bias in which individuals rely on only one
factor to influence their perceptions. This would form a positive impression of Rarita, causing it to be
perceived as an attractive tourism destination.

Winning the championship would also affect Rarita’s provinces. West Rarita has the lowest GDP and
healthcare spending per capita, while having the highest population density, indicating a lower
socioeconomic area. Investing in local arenas would create jobs, increasing West Rarita’s GNI per capita.
Further, as people from lower socioeconomic groups are at greater risk of poor health, hosting
international games would draw more attention to sport in this province, encouraging healthier
lifestyles and increasing life expectancies. East Rarita has the highest household savings rates, GDP and
healthcare spending per capita, indicating a higher socioeconomic area. Since sports expenditure is
correlated with disposable income, investing in recreational clubs would increase consumer spending,
thus stimulating the local economy. Further, merchandising outlets in this area would support the
perception of football as a “brand”.

